# Ruby challenges

>_[Training](https://github.com/simplonco/training) / [Ruby](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby) / Challenges_

Most of these problems are taken from [exercism.io](http://exercism.io) !

![Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo](bon-la-brute-et-le-truand-1966-03-g.jpg)

The exercises are ordered roughly in order of difficulty, but it's a bit
haphazard.
 
## How to run tests locally?

```shell
# Install ruby:
$ sudo apt-get install ruby

# Go inside your project folder and:
$ ruby *test.rb --verbose
```

http://www.commitstrip.com/fr/2016/02/22/when-the-functional-tests-are-all-red/

## Hello World

Write a program that greets the user by name, or by saying "Hello,
World!" if no name is given.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-hello-world)

## FizzBuzz

1, 2, Fizz, 3, Buzz, Fizz

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-fizzbuzz)

## Hamming 

Write a program that can calculate the Hamming difference between two
DNA strands.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-hamming)

## Gigasecond 

Write a program that will calculate the date that someone turned or will
celebrate their 1 Gs anniversary.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-gigasecond)

## Rna Transcription 

Write a program that, given a DNA strand, returns its RNA complement
(per RNA transcription).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-rna-transcription)

## Raindrops 

Write a program that converts a number to a string, the contents of
which depends on the number's prime factors.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-raindrops)

## Difference Of Squares 

Find the difference between the sum of the squares and the square of the
sums of the first N natural numbers.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-difference-of-squares)

## Pangram 

Determine if a sentence is a pangram.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-pangram)

## Sieve 

Write a program that uses the Sieve of Eratosthenes to find all the
primes from 2 up to a given number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-sieve)

## Roman Numerals 

Write a function to convert from normal numbers to Roman Numerals: e.g.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-roman-numerals)

## Robot Name 

Write a program that manages robot factory settings.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-robot-name)

## Nth Prime 

Write a program that can tell you what the nth prime is.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-nth-prime)

## Leap 

Write a program that will take a year and report if it is a leap year.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-leap)

## Grains 

Write a program that calculates the number of grains of wheat on a
chessboard given that the number on each square doubles.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-grains)

## Word Count 

Write a program that given a phrase can count the occurrences of each
word in that phrase.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-word-count)

## Bob 

Bob is a lackadaisical teenager. In conversation, his responses are very
limited.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-bob)

## Food Chain 

Write a program that generates the lyrics of the song 'I Know an Old
Lady Who Swallowed a Fly'

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-food-chain)

## Run Length Encoding 

Implement run-length encoding and decoding.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-run-length-encoding)

## Binary 

Write a program that will convert a binary number, represented as a
string (e.g. '101010'), to its decimal equivalent using first principles

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-binary)

## Accumulate 

Implement the \`accumulate\` operation, which, given a collection and an
operation to perform on each element of the collection, returns a new
collection containing the result of applying that operation to each
element of the input collection.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-accumulate)

## Sum Of Multiples 

Write a program that, given a number, can find the sum of all the
multiples of particular numbers up to but not including that number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-sum-of-multiples)

## Grade School 

Write a small archiving program that stores students' names along with
the grade that they are in.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-grade-school)

## Series 

Write a program that will take a string of digits and give you all the
contiguous substrings of length \`n\` in that string.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-series)

## Phone Number 

Write a program that cleans up user-entered phone numbers so that they
can be sent SMS messages.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-phone-number)

## Prime Factors 

Compute the prime factors of a given natural number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-prime-factors)

## Strain 

Implement the \`keep\` and \`discard\` operation on collections. Given a
collection and a predicate on the collection's elements, \`keep\`
returns a new collection containing those elements where the predicate
is true, while \`discard\` returns a new collection containing those
elements where the predicate is false.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-strain)

## Etl 

We are going to do the \`Transform\` step of an Extract-Transform-Load.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-etl)

## Trinary 

Write a program that will convert a trinary number, represented as a
string (e.g. '102012'), to its decimal equivalent using first
principles.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-trinary)

## Beer Song 

Write a program which produces the lyrics to that beloved classic, that
field-trip favorite: 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-beer-song)

## Bowling 

Score a bowling game

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-bowling)

## Space Age 

Write a program that, given an age in seconds, calculates how old
someone is in terms of a given planet's solar years.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-space-age)

## Anagram 

Write a program that, given a word and a list of possible anagrams,
selects the correct sublist.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-anagram)

## Binary Search Tree 

Write a program that inserts numbers and searches in a binary tree.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-binary-search-tree)

## Crypto Square 

Implement the classic method for composing secret messages called a
square code.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-crypto-square)

## Clock 

Implement a clock that handles times without dates.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-clock)

## Acronym 

Convert a long phrase to its acronym

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-acronym)

## Scrabble Score 

Write a program that, given a word, computes the scrabble score for that
word.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-scrabble-score)

## Nucleotide Count 

Given a DNA string, compute how many times each nucleotide occurs in the
string.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-nucleotide-count)

## Hexadecimal 

Write a program that will convert a hexadecimal number, represented as a
string (e.g. "10af8c"), to its decimal equivalent using first principles
(i.e. no, you may not use built-in or external libraries to accomplish
the conversion).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-hexadecimal)

## Say 

Write a program that will take a number from 0 to 999,999,999,999 and
spell out that number in English.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-say)

## Meetup 

Calculate the date of meetups.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-meetup)

## Queen Attack 

Write a program that positions two queens on a chess board and indicates
whether or not they are positioned so that they can attack each other.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-queen-attack)

## Palindrome Products 

Write a program that can detect palindrome products in a given range.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-palindrome-products)

## Bracket Push 

Make sure the brackets and braces all match.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-bracket-push)

## Matrix 

Write a program that, given a string representing a matrix of numbers,
can return the rows and columns of that matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-matrix)

## Saddle Points 

Write a program that detects saddle points in a matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-saddle-points)

## Triangle 

Write a program that can tell you if a triangle is equilateral,
isosceles, or scalene.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-triangle)

## Atbash Cipher 

Create an implementation of the atbash cipher, an ancient encryption
system created in the Middle East.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-atbash-cipher)

## House 

Write a program that outputs the nursery rhyme 'This is the House that
Jack Built'.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-house)

## Secret Handshake 

Write a program that will take a decimal number, and convert it to the
appropriate sequence of events for a secret handshake.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-secret-handshake)

## Proverb 

For want of a horseshoe nail, a kingdom was lost, or so the saying goes.
Write a program that outputs the full text of this proverbial rhyme.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-proverb)

## Ocr Numbers 

Write a program that, given a 3 x 4 grid of pipes, underscores, and
spaces, can determine which number is represented, or whether it is
garbled.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-ocr-numbers)

## Pig Latin 

Implement a program that translates from English to Pig Latin

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-pig-latin)

## Simple Linked List 

Write a simple linked list implementation that uses Elements and a List

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-simple-linked-list)

## Luhn 

Write a program that can take a number and determine whether or not it
is valid per the Luhn formula.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-luhn)

## Simple Cipher 

Implement a simple shift cipher like Caesar and a more secure
substitution cipher

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-simple-cipher)

## Wordy 

Write a program that takes a word problem and returns the answer as an
integer.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-wordy)

## Allergies 

Write a program that, given a person's allergy score, can tell them
whether or not they're allergic to a given item, and their full list of
allergies.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-allergies)

## Poker 

Pick the best hand(s) from a list of poker hands.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-poker)

## Kindergarten Garden 

Write a program that, given a diagram, can tell you which plants each
child in the kindergarten class is responsible for.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-kindergarten-garden)

## Linked List 

Implement a doubly linked list

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-linked-list)

## Pythagorean Triplet 

There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which a
Find the product a \* b \* c.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-pythagorean-triplet)

## Robot Simulator 

Write a robot simulator.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-robot-simulator)

## Twelve Days 

Write a program that outputs the lyrics to 'The Twelve Days of
Christmas'

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-twelve-days)

## Circular Buffer 

A data structure that uses a single, fixed-size buffer as if it were
connected end-to-end.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-circular-buffer)

## Largest Series Product 

Write a program that, when given a string of digits, can calculate the
largest product for a contiguous substring of digits of length n.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-largest-series-product)

## Binary Search 

Write a program that implements a binary search algorithm.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-binary-search)

## Two Bucket 

Given two buckets of different size, write a program to demonstrate how
to measure an exact number of liters.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-two-bucket)

## Pascals Triangle 

Write a program that computes Pascal's triangle up to a given number of
rows.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-pascals-triangle)

## Custom Set 

Create a custom set type.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-custom-set)

## Minesweeper 

Write a program that adds the numbers to a minesweeper board

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-minesweeper)

## Scale Generator 

Write a program that can generate musical scales, given a starting note
and a set of intervals.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-scale-generator)

## Protein Translation 

Write a program that will translate RNA sequences into proteins.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-protein-translation)

## Perfect Numbers 

The Greek mathematician Nicomachus devised a classification scheme for
natural numbers.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/ruby-perfect-numbers)
